25 Basic Linux Commands For Beginners

What is Linux?
Linux is a free and open-source software that operates on its own operating system. 
The term ‘Linux’ stands for GNU + Linux. Initially developed by Linus Torvalds, it was created alongside the source code of Unix. 
While Linux is extensively utilized for various purposes, its applications are well-known to many.

Use of Linux Commands
Linux commands are a type of Unix command or shell procedure. 
They are the basic tools used to interact with Linux on an individual level. 
Linux commands are used to perform a variety of tasks, including displaying information about files and directories.

Linux operating system is used on servers, desktops, and maybe even your smartphone. 
It has a lot of command line tools that can be used for virtually everything on the system.

All users should be familiar with most of these commands as they are required for most operating system tasks and computer programming.

Basic Linux Terminal Commands

1. Ls command in Linux
Displays information about files in the current directory.
2. pwd command in Linux
Displays the current working directory.
3. mkdir command in Linux
Creates a directory.
4. cd command in Linux
To navigate between different folders.
5. rmdir command in Linux
Removes empty directories from the directory lists.
6. cp command in Linux
Copy files from one directory to another.
7. mv command in Linux
Rename and Replace the files
8. rm command in Linux
Delete files
9. uname command in Linux
Command to get basic information about the OS
10. locate command in Linux
Find a file in the database.
11. touch command in Linux
Create empty files
12. Ln command in Linux
Create shortcuts to other files
13. cat command in Linux
Display file contents on terminal
14. clear command in Linux
Clear terminal 
15. ps command in Linux
Display the processes in terminal
16. man command in Linux
Access manual for all Linux commands
17. grep command in Linux
Search for a specific string in an output
18. echo command in Linux
Display active processes on the terminal
19. wget command in Linux
download files from the internet.
20. whoami command in Linux
Create or update passwords for existing users
21. sort command in Linux
sort the file content
22. cal command in Linux
View Calendar in terminal
23. whereis command in Linux
View the exact location of any command typed after this command
24. df command in Linux
Check the details of the file system
25. wc command in Linux
Check the lines, word count, and characters in a file using different options

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/basic-linux-commands/
